---
layout: post
title:  HW1 Instructions
category: update 
description: 
---
HW1 is uploaded! Read the following guide for instructions.

## Setup Guide
- Repository link: [THIS LINK](https://github.com/amuuu/game-course-fall-2021)
- Get Unity Editor from the official archive from [THIS LINK]().
- Unity version must be `2019.4.9f1` or higher (but not 2020 or 2021)
- To add the project in Unity Hub, choose the directory of `2dpuzzlegame` in the repository.
- Use Visual Studio Community or Rider to make your life easier :)
- Use assets inside the `Raw Assets` directory for the new features that you add.

## Submission Guide

- Fork the class repository (use [THIS LINK](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) to see how.)
- You must commit your changes on the project gradually - there shouldn't be only one commit containing all the changes (so that we can decrease the code plagarism probability)
- The commits must be in your name.
- Before the deadline ends, create a pull request on the project. (use [THIS LINK](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork) to see how)
- For the title of your pull request, use this format `"Merge Prototype1HW 9752XXXX"`
- Include a video clip showing how each part of your submission plays. Put the video file inside the directory of `/game-course-fall-2021/prototype-one--2d-puzzle-game/HW/Video/`. It's just a simple screen record of the gameplay inside Unity.
- Build the project for Windows and include your export in the directory of  `/game-course-fall-2021/prototype-one--2d-puzzle-game/HW/Export/`.
- This HW was uploaded on **12 Mehr 1400, 00:00 (03-10-2021)**. You must submit your pull request until **25 Mehr, 23:59 (17-10-2021)**.

## Homework Description

Implement and add these new features to the protoype:

### 1) Door lock opener item (keys)
- We added "potion" in class. Make a similar type of item, "key." Place a bunch of keys in the scene. 
- The key must disappear when player hits "E" on their keyboard when they are **near** a key.
- Store the number of collected keys somewhere.

### 2) Key counter on UI
- We added the counter of clones that get on the sticky platforms shown in UI with our custom event system.
- Add a similar feature to show the number of collected keys which you added in the previous section on the UI.

### 3) Win/level objective platform/zone
- We already have a platform that detects win condition (the blue platform.)
- Add a door sprite on the platform to make it look more decent.
- If the player has enough keys AND is near the door AND presses "E", the win condition is met.
- If the win condition is met, the UI must show the text "You Won!"

### 4) Lose
- If the player gets in the death zone, UI must show a text "You lost!"

### 5) Special feature (Important)
This is the most important part of this assignment. Choose one of the two following features that you like more and add them to the prototype. (extra points if you implement both)

**1) Player Teleport:**

- Usage: The player gets in one door and comes out of the other door.
- Add two doors in your scene. (make the color of teleporting doors different than the winning door which you added previously)
- Each door has a boolean that indicates whether the door is source or destination.
- A source door needs a reference to its destination.
- Add a certain type of key which lets you open the source teleport doors.
- When the player is near a source door AND hits "E" on the keyboard AND has the key for the door, they get teleported to the destination door.
- When a clone is near the source door, it **automatically** gets sucked in a gets teleported to the destination door without the need for any collected keys.
- If you press "E" near a destination door, it shouldn't work.


**2) Clone Switcher ~ (20%-30% extra points in HW grade)**

- Usage: Switching the player with a clone.
- We already have a death zone for player. We also have a peace of code inside `PlayerMove` that destroys the player `GameObject` when you press a certain key. Implement a feature that destroys the clone when it goes into the "DeathZone".
- Add a certain type of item which lets you switch body with a clone. Use one of the sprites from the raw assets folder for the item's sprite.
- When you get the key, the condition for switching is met.
- If the condition is met, the game goes into a pause state. In this state if you press "A" and "D" the arrow that was previously on top of the player, moves between the clones. The purpose for this is to let the player choose which clone they want to switch with. (In other words, clones also have the arrow, but it's normally deactivated.)
- When you press Space, the clone object in which the arrow is active on, should become the player (In other words, the `CloneMove` script should get deactivated and the `PlayerMove` script should get activated.)
- Also, when you press Space, the new player object's color also should become white. (because it was a clone object before and its color was orange.)
- When you press Space, the old game object that was the player, must become a clone. (reverse the thing that happens to the chosen clone)
- The arrow must start moving on top of the new character game object.
- There should be a UI text that says "Choose the new player amongst the clones." which is shown when the player is choosing and should get deactivated when the player hits space.
- After these changes happen, the game must come out of the pause state, and the player must be able to continue the level like before.


### 6) Level design
Wow you have added so many features to the game! In this part, design a level that uses all these features that you've implemented. Try to make a level that makes the player really think to try to solve the puzzle.


### 7) Optional ~ (5% extra points in HW grade)
The sprite sheet containing each frame of player walking is included in `Raw Assets` folder. Make the player use this sprite sheet and implement the walk cycle animation. Watch some tutorials on YouTube for this :) (search the keywords mentioned in this paragraph.)